<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>Plans for second half of 2003</TITLE>

<LINK rel=stylesheet type="text/css"
href="../acedocs.css"
title="Style sheet for Acedb docs">

</HEAD>

<BODY>
<H1>Plans for second half of 2003</H1>


<H2>Overview</H2>

<P>So far this year:

<P>We have got to a state where the SMap/FMap code is reasonably stable and the
flood of bugs from its introduction seems to be reducing. We have done work on
the split off FMap but this is still some way from being realised. We have also
done work to support the annotators at Sanger but there are still some
significant outstanding pieces of work. Finally, we have spent some time
supporting Lincoln Stein and he seems to be happy for the moment with acedb.

<P>We need now to set goals for the rest of the year which make the best use of our
limited resources, especially by trying to make sure that we capitalise on work
done for xace by making sure that we can easily incorporate it into the split
off Fmap where appropriate.


<H2>Priorities</H2>

<ol>
  <li>Get a prototype split off FMap working this year (we need a name for this
      thing....I would say "Emap" but perhaps that smacks too much of Ensemble !)
  <li>Continue support for Sanger Annotators, in particular humpub group (Jen)
   worm group and we should not forget Ian Dunhams group are avid acedb users.
  <li>Support of Wormbase, i.e. Lincoln
</ol>

<P>The following sections give more detail and in some places give names of people
who will do the work.



<H2>Split Off FMap</H2>

<ol>
  <li> Get all existing code checked back into cvs and see where we have got to. (Simon)
  <li>Finish adding DAS support to server so we can run the new Fmap from DAS
      servers. (Ed)
  <li> Investigate adding support to the acedb server to be http protocol based
      for a DAS only version of the acedb server. There are two parts to this:
      
      <P>- assess how much work it would be to make the acedb server do this (Ed)

      <P>- find a suitable http library (Simon)
  <li>Do the code to make the existing new display into a separate client. (all of us)
</ol>


<H2>Human group support</H2>

<ol>
  <li> Blixem: need to continue work to improve the way it works and its
      reliability. There are cases where it seems no to load the requested
      sequences for unknown reasons. We can improve greatly its error handling
      and general message outputting which would help the annotators a lot.
      We all agree that the code is horrendous but its important to try and
      improve its overall quality each time we work on it. This seems to be
      this groups favoured tool and we need to keep them happy. (Ed, Simon)
  <li> User defaults need to be completely revamped as a .acedbrc directory
      allowing defaults on a per database basis and using a much better
      interface (GTK notebook would be good). We should investigate GNOME
      for any stanza/ini file code it may provide for supporting defaults files. (Rob)
</ol>


<H2>Worm group support</H2>

<ol>
  <li> carry on generalisation of  "db feature -> seg -> method" mapping, Simon
      makes the good point that the method will need to know which type (as in
      the sense of "gene", "homol" etc.) thingy it represents but that this
      can be generalised  a la  GMap. This has lots of feedback/synergy with
      the split off FMap. (Ed)
  <li>need to provide support for creating "genes" from the genefinder interface
      that are of a class other than Sequence. (Ed)
  <li> need some kind of superclass mechanism so that they can run queries on
      several classes at once (e.g. Sequence, CDS and Transcript). Simon suggested
      this could be via a file in wspec which could be read and used by both
      the Query and AQL code. At the same time we should investigate the possibility of replacing the
      existing subclass mechanism with something less restrictive (base it on
      the set of tags in an object only ??) (Simon)
</ol>


<H2>General programming</H2>

<ol>
  <li> finish the method/source code for in/excluding sets of features from GFF
      output. We need to nail this having invested a large amount of Robs time
      in it. (As a side issue need to check that the missing fields in GFF output was
      correctly implemented as '.' and not **UNKNOWN**) (This friday, Ed, Rob, Simon)
  <li>Finish off the new genetic code stuff. This is almost done. (Ed)
  <li>Vamp up the test system to include new tests of dna/peptide/GFF dumping.
      and also of smap code. Simon suggested setting up our own wormbase server so we can test stuff
      before handing it to Lincoln, we should see if Lincoln has a test suite
      but note that we <b>don't</b> want to end up doing Lincolns testing for him ! (Rob)
</ol>


<HR>
<ADDRESS><a href="mailto:edgrif@sanger.ac.uk">Ed Griffiths &lt;edgrif@sanger.ac.uk&gt;</a></ADDRESS>
<!-- hhmts start -->
Last modified: Fri Jun 13 10:35:50 BST 2003
<!-- hhmts end -->
</BODY>
</HTML>
